# Sudoku Solver
This is a depth-first approach to solve 9x9 sudoku puzzles using a tree and backtracking. 
# How it works
The program reads a given incomplete sudoku grid and creates a Board object which contains the grid data in an int[][], as well as two ArrayLists. One is for numbers that could fit in the upper-left-most cell, and the other is for numbers that have already been tested. The first board is pushed into a stack which will contain each new version of the board as the program solves the puzzle. Then, the program checks to see if the board is already filled in correctly. If not, it adds all the potential numbers that could fit in the upper-left-most empty cell into the valid numbers ArrayList, creates a copy of the Board on the top of the Board stack, and fills in the cell using the first number in the ArrayList. Each time a new Board is created, the program checks to see if the Board is complete, if the Board is incomplete, then it is added to the Board stack. The program repeats this process until the board is solved, or until an empty cell has no valid numbers to fill it. If the cell has no valid numbers, the program pops the top Board off the stack, deletes the number most recently tested, adds that number to the ArrayList of tested numbers contained in the Board object, and tests the next number in the valid numbers ArrayList. The program then repeats this process of testing numbers and backtracking until a completed Board is produced, in which case it prints the solved Board into the Answers.txt file in the same format the grid was read in.  
# How to use
Sudoku grids are read in from sudokus.txt using this format: Each sudoku grid must be ten lines. The first line must include "Grid". Use any ordering conventions you would like. The next nine lines must be nine unseparated digits each. Each line will be the rows, in order, of the sudoku grid. Upon completion, the program will print into the command line the sum of all the three digit numbers in the top left of each grid. (The first three digits of the first row will be read a three digit number) This makes it easy to verify that many boards have been solved correctly without the scrutiny of checking each one. The solved sudoku boards will be printed in the file Answers.txt
# Future Improvements
Currently this program is lacking in error handling, for example if the Board is impossible to solve, an error occurs and the program does not finish execution.
